So we alluded to nested auto layouts in
our riff during auto layout part one,
but let's kind of take a little bit of
a deeper dive and do it in our nest.
So I've got spare parts of
two different ideas here.
One is a nav bar, and the other one
is what looks like those components
that we're playing around with when we're
doing constraints and layout grids.
Except with those,
there's a little bit of work already done,
there was some auto layout in place.
With these, this is just literally all
of the spare pieces laying around,
and it's on us to kind of
re-put it back together.
So the plan action here is I'm
going to kinda show you the process
of using nested auto layouts to
kind of recreate the photogram,
which apparently was not taken,
post, and then you can take it for
a spin by creating a navigation bar or
something along those lines.
And so there's some pieces laying
around if you try out with that.
But with that,
there are a bunch of kind of nested auto
layout components that
we need to think about.
So before we just start going and
throwing it all together,
let's talk about a plan of attack.
They are at least somewhat like,
when I left the spare parts around,
I did at least arranged
them in an order that looked somewhat
like what I intend to build.
So we kind of pieces out kinda like
the same way we would if we looked at
a design and thought about the DOM
elements or React components or
a Svelte components or
what have you components.
We've kinda got this top bar, right,
but these two are kind of nested and
related to each other.
So I'm thinking right here this
is one auto layout frame, right,
that exists inside of one that has
the full top bar of the image.
We can argue whether or
not the image itself is one.
Then we get down here and we have a very
similar concept to what we saw before
where we got three things that we wanna be
able to slot a new one in or remove one.
And so this feels like a little auto
layout piece here as well that exists
in a longer bar.
And then probably something similar
here inside of the card itself,
right, which is vertical as
these things stacked together.
I wish that was a picture of a hamburger,
that would better illustrate my point, but
that's not how stock art works.
I'll also show you how
to kinda generate sample
content in a little bit as
well as a little side quest,
maybe when we have completed this piece.
But with that, we can start to
assemble the various pieces.
So we'll grab all of this and
let's take it out of that section,
just we can kinda see what we have and
have not used.
I left my very important
screen name behind.
Okay, so this is how I would
probably go about this.
And I don't always end up with
a situation where I'm starting with
all the various pieces,
but a lot of times, I do.
In this case we can kinda start
to select various parts and
put them together, right?
So we know that this is
effectively one auto layout piece.
I'll usually start with the smallest
ones and work my way out.
So I can grab these two,
I can just hit Shift+A,
which both puts them in a frame together
and also makes that an auto layout frame.
And so we can call this one,
Frame 1 is fine in context,
but let me tell you how the story ends.
You've got to design with a bunch of
Frame 1, frame this, frame that, and
you can't make sense of anything.
So we'll call this one User.
I don't know.
You know what's harder than
live coding and live designing?
Live naming things in front of people.
All right, in here,
it's got a space of 32.
That feels like a bit much.
Let's try 8.
And then we want to align
it in the center so
that we got the text
aligned up with the avatar.
I mean, so far so good, now that exists
in context with this piece here.
Now, you could argue should I
make this an auto layout frame?
On one hand, you can argue no, because
it's one thing, what are you doing, right?
You could also argue future you
might put future things in there.
That's the engineer in your head talking,
and you can listen to it or
not listen to it.
I don't really care.
We're gonna skip it just
in the sake of like,
I know that we will not be
iterating on this forever.
But if it was a design that you
plan on using for a longer time,
you could choose to look,
he's gonna do it anyway.
Make that a frame as well
with the same kind of rules.
We'll make that right
aligned in the center.
We'll keep the value in there.
We'll look at variables in a little bit.
That'll show you how to use one valuable
multiple places, so if you knew how
to change the consistent icon spacing
across your entire app, you can do that.
But we're not there yet.
So we've got that in place,
that's a row, it's aligned.
We're given at this point no padding,
I can choose to change that later.
But at this moment that feels right.
And now we can grab these
two things together.
And again,
that becomes an auto layout frame.
And what's kinda nice is that I've mostly
figured out what to do in this case.
So we've got this frame,
again, it's called Frame 1.
Cool, and that actually made
my vector a auto layout frame,
which is not what I want.
All right, so we'll go ahead and
turn that back.
We'll wrap this one in a frame.
So I'm gonna hit Command+Option+G.
And now that's inside of a frame.
And we can make that an auto layout.
So now I can theoretically throw more
things in there as well with the 8.
That way, before each and every one of my
street tacos was element inside of that
frame that had the vector in it.
And that's not what I wanted.
Cool, every time I just tried to make
a ad hoc decision, I always regret it.
So I'll hit Shift+A again.
And now we've got these two together.
And so you can see inside Frame 2, we've
got the user, and we've got the frame.
Now things I hate about this,
it looks fine, but
that's because it assumed that
since they were 211 pixels apart,
that I want a gap of 211 between each and
everything.
I do not want a gap of 211
between each and everything.
What I want is it to be auto.
So go ahead and we'll make that auto,
which makes it fixed width instead of
hugged, and then we will center it, right?
And you can see that the iconography
changes a little bit and
some of them all collapsed
together with a gap.
They are literally spread out.
So there's effectively a space
between here as well in
terms of the way they're justified.
Cool, cool, cool.
And we'll say More Options.
I don't know what to call this.
Cool, so we've got that in place and
then we can do something
similar down here as well.
So we'll grab these three and we will
add them into an auto layout frame.
Yeah, let's call that,
Nope, I grabbed, let's actually
wrap them in a frame together.
So Command+Option+G for me, or you can
just literally choose to right-click
the three of them, wrap them in a frame.
But I'm learning that the just
Shift+A on a vector will then,
it tries to be a little too smart.
Cool, so we've got that in place.
We'll call this one Sharing Options, or
social engagement, whatever you want.
Because it's comment sharing,
I don't know.
And, again, we'll wrap that in a frame, so
we can do the same thing we did with
those three tacos up there as well.
Cool, and so
we can grab all of these as well.
And those are now in an auto layout.
All right, I need to wrap these on frames.
That works with text and
it does not work as well.
So now it's in a frame that
we've added auto layout to.
Cool, and again,
we have the same problems we had before.
So we'll say auto, and
now you can see that kinda space
that is been added in there as well.
There's no text, don't make it
seem that they're not aligned,
because they're all icons that
happen to be the same size.
But future me is going to wanna make
sure that they're aligned center.
All right, finally we got this one,
and you can be like,
this doesn't need to be one.
I'm gonna argue that it should be one,
for reasons I'll show you in a second.
So say likes, this will be engagement.
That sounds like a businessey term, right?
Awesome, and so we've got all
of these pieces involved here,
but now we need the kind of larger piece
as well, so I can select all of them.
Certainly look like a card.
Command+Option+G to wrap it in a frame,
and we'll say Photo Card.
And now we add an auto layout to that.
Cool, and so
now that has assumed that we want to go,
it assumes that we wanna have 24.
We're gonna go 0.
We can kind of adjust some stuff.
I don't know that if I want the padding
in between each or not, but
I can notice some things that
are already annoying me.
If I biggerize this a little bit,
you can see that that's definitely
not doing what I want in this case.
So we'll go ahead here, and
Instead of this having a fixed width,
we'll go ahead and
have it fill the container, right?
That's kinda like having a constraint, but
less about being attached to both sides
and more about just take up
as much space as possible.
If we put a second thing in this row or
something along those lines,
it would then share it,
kinda like divs in a flexbox.
Here as well, we can do that.
Awesome, and then we'll do it here, too.
And what I'll do is if I
wanted the likes on this side,
now I can kinda do some
interesting justification options.
That's why I chose to put this text in
a flexbox because then I can choose, do I
want it left justified, center justified,
or towards the end there, right?
Cool, so we'll have that in place as well.
And then this is currently
the fixed height, but really,
if we double click on the bottom here,
we can actually make it hug the contents,
right?
But let's see.
Now, what do we do about this image?
You cannot use constraints at
all in an auto layout frame.
So you cannot mix and match.
You choose one path.
You can have an auto layout frame
inside of a regular one that has
constraints, totally.
But I can't necessarily bind it to
the size of the constraints cuz you'll
see that, again, in the classic Figma
fashion, it's just gone, right?
I happen to know that you cannot
use constraints in auto layout but
if you didn't,
you think you're going slowly insane.
So go ahead and
we'll make that an auto layout frame, too.
And this point,
we are also going to fill the container.
And let's actually fill it this way,
too, so that if we choose to grow and
shrink this, not dissimilar from
what I had with constraints, right?
Now, then becomes a question of
how do I wanna deal with padding.
I have two options, honestly.
And I don't really have strong opinions,
so maybe if someone wants to vote for one,
we can do whichever one.
I can add padding, I mean,
I already know which one I want
cuz one's easier than the other.
I can add padding to each of these
components here that I want to have some
amount of padding, or I just put a gap and
space in between each of them.
Do we have strong opinions?
Which one do we wanna do?
Cuz I'm gonna do the easier
one on the list.
>> Gap.
>> Gap, all right, and
if I regret it, we'll change it.
So let's go ahead and
give that gap of, let's start with 8.
Looks pretty good.
Here's an interesting one.
So now if I do the horizontal padding,
right, then my image is also padded,
right?
Which doesn't look that bad now,
let's do it vertically as well.
Doesn't look that bad now until I make
the fill color white or whatever.
Sure, that works.
And we can kinda see that
it's not my intended design.
So that's not going to work.
But, let's round the corner
while we're here, though.
And we'll give it a little drop
shadow cuz we're worth it.
So we wanna get rid of this.
Does anyone know what the answer is?
>> Negative margin.
>> Negative margin?
I didn't think about that,
let's try that out.
What happens if I do?
Yeah, this one we say,
do 16 on the sides here or 8?
Let's do, No dice.
That's also the gap.
So, No dice.
I can't have a negative number in there.
>> Uncheck Clip content.
>> That will show it to me,
actually that doesn't even do it, but
that's not gonna solve my issue.
The answer is more auto layout,
[LAUGH] right?
So, what are the suggesting?
So instead of having a,
we'll back to a margin of 0.
And then actually,
I could, this one's easy.
We'll say this one gets the 8, right?
So that looks good.
And then the big question here is,
do I do it twice?
Or do I wrap it in another auto layout?
All right, and that one, what is going on?
Click that, and then we're gonna say,
Add auto layout to that one,
we can give this one an 8.
I could have done it each individual one,
but
if I know that the entire bottom
section should have that.
So basically, the top and the bottom are
their own layers that have that padding,
but then the image is allowed
to go to the margins, right?
So the overall card has no padding, right?
But each part of this should have padding,
does.
Could I have done it individually for
each one of these as well?
I could have, but I like the idea.
If I decide to go up to 16, and
I don't have variables yet,
then I'd have to do it
twice all over the place.
I like the idea that no, we have all
the top content and all the bottom content
in layers that have padding, and
I don't necessarily need to do it here.
So that'll work.
And we have,
Do you know what else this needs?
We need to give it a,
let's give it a min width of,
why does he choose 375?
Because that is, I think, the iPhone SE in
Chrome on the smallest responsive setting,
and I've committed that to memory somehow,
and that is now the number that I use.
You could choose a different number,
but you wanna know why does
he picking that number?
That's why.
And let's say that the maximum
width of this is 640.
I don't know, right?
So now, it's got some constraints to,
didn't mean to overuse
the word constraint.
Not constraints in the Figma term,
constraints in the, just regular words,
mean words.
And we can also give that
component a minimum height,
at least, maybe a maximum one, too,
let's say the minimum, let's say 240.
And we'll give it maximum height of,
I don't know, 480 again.
Cool, so now I've got a component that
I can kinda use that has some kind of
natural bounds to it.
And we can argue that's maybe too short,
but you can adjust the numbers yourself.
But effectively, now we've got a card that
really does look and feel like something
we'd seen in responsive design that we
implemented in code, but all in Figma.
And also it can bring this in
to the one where I've got,
it's inside the pay team.
I gotta switch this one over in a second,
but just in the sake of keeping it simple.
I can kinda go through and
see each piece, and
this is in dev mode,
tou can kinda get a sense.
If I click on each one of these, it gives
you a lot of the answers around, this
is spaced between in the Flexbox and it
kinda shows you the pieces super easily.
That said, one would argue that,
I think with some of the stuff,
once we conceptually understand
the relationship between auto layout and
Flexbox, you could probably also stare at
the thing and get a sense of it as well.
And that becomes easier when either
you playing the role of designer or
in collaboration with the design team
kinda get some of these patterns in place.
It becomes a lot easier to get
designs where the implementation is
more obvious than if they were
just strategically placed as well.